---
slug: "/"
---

# My Zettelkasten

A collection of knokwledge I've gathered over the years. This is an attempt to capture them, primarily to serve as a reference for myself. However, I hope it is also useful to others.

When I was a kid, I broke a lot of things at home, out of curiosity to understand how things worked. Watches, radios, projectors, toys (all of them, some 3 or 4 I had ended up in pieces), cameras. When I was about 10, my mom bought me an electronics hobby kit (best birthday gift no. 1). At its core, it had an IC 555 a typical amplifier, along with it a bunch of transistors, resistors, diodes, switches and a reusable breadbord with wires. I learnt so much from it, by replicating the circuits from the book that came along with it and  ofcourse by messing around with connections just to see what would happend, or most importantly why nothing happend. 

I started learning western classical music with the EKB (electronic keyboard, piano). It was fascinating to learn, how people had discovered structures in music, understanding how combination of pitches and tones worked, how beauty in music is created by adding imperfections. I even managed to pass a few trinity college exams, upto Grade 5. This gave me some context to start being curious about Indian classical music, especially carnatic music. Delving intro trying to understand how ragas worked, how thalam worked, the rhythm came together. Although, I wish I had a carnatic teacher, who would have probably taught me what all the ragas and thalams were there, how to recognize them (I am very bad at recognizing tones), I may have not enjoyed it so much. I was more curious about the 'why', rather than the 'what'. I wasn't so much interested in what ragas were there, but more into why were ragas, how does it relate to the music it created.

My love with computers started when I was learning music. My dad had bought me a Yamaha PSR-1000 (best birthday gift no. 2). What it could do, was mind blowing. It had a floppy disk reader/writer, where you could record music as MIDI files, and play them back. Record different layers, with different instruments. You could edit them, correct them, loop them. All of this you could do with the keyboard itself. What I had discovered was, there were other people who recorded MIDI files and published them online. This was way back in 1998, internet was this amazing thing. Back then, I didn't have a computer at home. So, I would go to an internet cafe with my dad, browse for MIDI files, download them onto a floppy disk and rush back home to play them. To listen to them, and find out what interesting tunes they were making, and more importantly how they were making it. I always ended up studying the combination of notes, and the instrument arrangement. 